---
num: pa01
ready: true
desc: "Card game using Binary Search Trees"
assigned: 2022-05-02 09:00:00.00-8
due: 2022-05-13 23:59:00.00-8
---

# Collaboration policy
This assignment must be completed solo.

# Introduction

* Create a GitHub repo following the correct naming convention.
* Minimal starter code is provided for this lab, but be sure to grab it from GitHub
* Late submissions will be accepted after the due date until  for a 30% reduction. 

# Goal of this assignment

* Practice using Binary Search Trees
* Learn to organize a project's code structure on your own (not just filling in a template)
* Learn to design classes using good OOP design principles discussed in class
* Learn to refactor an existing solution to improve its design
* Learn to practice defensive coding strategies


# Instructions

# Starter code and required files

Refer to lab01 for instructions on how to set up a GitHub repository and pull the starter code for this lab.
Obtain the starter code from this repo: <https://github.com/ucsb-cs24-s22/STARTER-pa01>

Check that you have the following files:

* cards.cpp, cards.h    // These files should contain your implementation of the binary search tree to store a list of cards
* main.cpp // This file should read in the cards of the two players from input files and put everything together to play the game.
* Text files used for testing

Create the following files:
* ultility.cpp, ultility.h // These files should contain any other classes that you need to implement your game,
* tests.cpp // These files should contain test code for all the classes and methods you used in your game. We recommend at least 5 test cases for each public member function. While the test file will not be evaluated, there is an expectation that you will produce test code that causes failues when seeking help from TAs/ULAs. Course staff is asked to refrain from debugging student code or pointing out program bugs. So having test code available is important to enable the coure staff to help you more effectively.
* Makefile // Write your own makefile that generates two executables- the first should be called `game` (expected output for game is described later). The second should be called `tests` and must RUN (not just compile) all the test code to unit test your classes and methods 


## The game

Alice and Bob are playing a game a bit like Go Fish, although neither of them is very good at it. The players are dealt two sets of cards which are provided in two separate files as inputs to your program. Although the cards in each player's hand is unique, duplicates exist in the other player's hand.

Once you have the sets of cards, the game begins. Alice and Bob take turns playing the game. Alice iterates forward through her hand in increasing order of the card values (see next section on how cards are ordered), checking whether Bob has that card. Once a matching card is found, your program should print the line "Alice picked matching card <card suit as a character> <card value as a number/character>". The card should then be removed from both players hands. 

The process then repeats, except this time, Bob looks through his cards starting with the largest card and working towards the smallest card. This means that while the first card Alice finds should be the first shared card (in order), the first card Bob finds should be the last shared card (in order). The game ends once they do not have any cards in common and you should print out the final hands of both players. Note that players do not draw any new cards during this process. 

The ordering of cards is described in the next section.

## Card ordering

The ordering of cards is determined first by its suit and then by the value:  

1. The ordering least to greatest is: **clubs, diamonds, spades, hearts**. Thus a club of any value is less than a diamond of any value.

2. The ordering within each suit is determined by the value from **least to greatest** as follows: 
ace, 2, 3, . . . 10, jack, queen, king. 

Based on the above two rules, the correct ordering of

h 9, c k, s 3, c a, h j, d 3

would be

c a, c k, d 3, s 3, h 9, h j

## Your approach

At the start of the program, you will read in Alice and Bob's starting hands from two files. The names of these files are provided as command line arguments with Alice's file in `argv[1]` and Bob's in `argv[2]`. The starter code opens the files for you as `ifstream` objects, which you can treat much like `cin`. You should read Alice and Bob's cards into two binary search trees. You must implement the binary search trees yourself. Don't worry about balancing the binary search trees (though you can try and optimize this if you like). Your binary search tree class should obey the card ordering rules given above. While implementing this, you may find it helpful to overload the operators `==`, `<`, and `>` on your card class so that you can easily choose which branches to go down on your binary tree. Note that you need to correctly handle the case of cards with the value 10 (which has two characters) and separately compare the value and suit, so storing the cards as strings is probably not the best approach.

Once you have the sets of cards, the game begins as described before.

As before, you should write your own Makefile for this lab so that running `make` builds an executable called `game`.

## Before you begin

An additional requirement is that you write a set of unit tests for your binary search tree. These should be in a file called `tests.cpp`, which you will submit, and you should write your Makefile so that running `make test` compiles and runs these tests. Note that there will be no Gradescope tests for these unit tests, so you can have the output in whatever format you find most helpful. You should test each of the functions on your binary search tree, which will include, at the very least, `find()`, `delete()`, `insert()`, `successor()`, and `predecessor()`. You should write these tests BEFORE implementing the full game to ensure that your binary search tree works correctly. Debugging one set of code is much easier than debugging two at the same time. This will also ensure that your are correctly separating your binary tree class from the rest of your program logic.

## Example run of the program

Contents of `alice_cards.txt`:
```
h 3
s 10
c a
c 3
s 5
h 10
d a
```

Contents of `bob_cards.txt`:
```
c 2
d a
h 10
c 3
d j
s 10
h a
```

Correct output after running `make && ./game alice_cards.txt bob_cards.txt`:
```
Alice picked matching card c 3
Bob picked matching card h 10
Alice picked matching card d a
Bob picked matching card s 10

Alice's cards:
c a
s 5
h 3

Bob's cards:
c 2
d j
h a
```

Note: a=ace, k=king, q=queen, j=jack

## Requirements

For this lab, you will have a lot of flexibility on your implementation (which just means we won't be providing a code framework for you to fill in). However, there are a few requirements that your mentor will check for when they look at your code. Keep these in mind as you think about your solution:

* You must use a binary search tree you implemented yourself to solve the problem, not another data structure or a class in the standard library. You may reuse code from lab04
* Your binary search tree must implement a constructor, a destructor and other other methods as needed
* You code should be readable
* Your classes should define clear interfaces and hide implementation details as much as possible. 
* Your program must properly free all memory it allocates, including your binary tree nodes and any dynamically allocated data stored inside them. We will also check this with valgrind when you turn in your code to Gradescope.
* You do not need to worry about having multiple instances of the same card. Each card will appear only once per hand.

# Submission instructions 
Submit your code on Gradescope. You must organize your program in the files: main.cpp, cards.cpp, tests.cpp, cards.h, utility.cpp and utility.h

In addition you must create a Makefile that compiles your program to an executable called `game`.
