---
num: pa01
ready: true
desc: "Linked-list implementation of a card game"
assigned: 2022-02-03 09:00:00.00-8
due: 2022-02-16 22:00:00.00-8
---

<div markdown="1">

## This assignment may be done solo or in pairs
You may continue to work with your pair partners from lab02/lab03 assignment or work solo.

# Introduction

* Create a github repo following the correct naming convention.
* If you have a partner, add you partner as a collaborator to the repo. Partner should accept the invitations to complete this process
* Now copy all of the files for this lab from the starter-code directory to your git directory:

Visit the following web link—you may want to use “right-click” (or “control-click” on Mac) to bring up a window where you can open this in a new window or tab:

[PA01 Files](https://github.com/ucsb-cs24-mirza-s21/pa01_data)

You should see a listing of several C++ files. Please copy those files into your local pa01 Github repo directory.

# Goal of this assignment

* Practice using linked lists 
* Learn to organize a project's code structure on your own (not just filling in a template)
* Learn to design classes using good OOP design principles discussed in class

# Instructions


## The game

Alice and Bob are playing a game a bit like Go Fish, although neither
of them is very good at it. Rather than randomly guessing what card
the other person has, they take turns to find a matching card. Each
player goes through their list of cards in order and asks the other
player to list all of their cards in order until a match is found. The
game ends once they do not have any cards in common. Note that they do
not draw any new cards during this process.

You have pointed out to Alice and Bob that this game is completely
deterministic. They're not sure what you mean, so you decide to
demonstrate by showing that a computer can predict how a game will
play out. To do this, you'll be using a linked list!

## Approach Overview

At the start of the program, you will read in Alice and Bob's starting
hands from two files. The names of these files are provided as command
line arguments with Alice's file in `argv[1]` and Bob's in
`argv[2]`. The starter code opens the files for you as `ifstream`
objects, which you can treat much like `cin`. You should read Alice
and Bob's cards into two linked lists, making sure to maintain the
order in the file, that is the first card in the file should be at the
head of the list.

Once you have the lists of cards, the game begins. Alice goes first
(Important! Alice's file is in `argv[1]`) and iterates over each card
in her hand, checking whether Bob has that card. Once a matching card
is found, you should print the line "Alice picked matching card <card
suit as a character> <card value as a number/character>". The card
should then be removed from both players hands. Make sure to delete
any dynamically allocated memory when removing the cards from your
lists!

The process then repeats, except this time, Bob looks through his
cards for the first one that Alice also has. Each player should begin
their search where they left off in a previous round. Once there are
no matching cards, you should print out the final hands of both
players with the matching cards removed.

You should write your own Makefile for this lab so that running `make`
builds an executable called `game`. Also, it should build an executable
called `testcards` which runs all your unit tests.

## Example

Contents of `alice_cards.txt`:

```
h 3
s 2
c a
c 3
h 9
s a
```

Contents of `bob_cards.txt`:

```
c 2
s a
d j
h 9
c 3
```

Correct output after running `make && ./game alice_cards.txt bob_cards.txt`:

```
Alice picked matching card c 3
Bob picked matching card s a
Alice picked matching card h 9

Alice's cards:
h 3
s 2
c a

Bob's cards:
c 2
d j
```

Note: 0=10, a=ace, k=king, q=queen, j=jack


## Requirements

For this lab, you will have a lot of flexibility on your
implementation (which just means we won't be providing a code
framework for you to fill in). However, there are a few requirements
that your mentor will check for when they look at your code. Keep
these in mind as you think about your solution:

* You must use a linked list to store the sequence of cards for each player, not another data structure or a linked list in the standard library.
* You must unittest your classes, and include all your test code in testcards.cpp
* Your solution must include at least two overloaded operators. These
   will probably be the operator on your Card class to check if two
   cards match i.e. they have the same suit and value, and the
   operator on your Card class to output stream i.e. operator '<<'
   used in print statements like "std::cout << some_str". (More details provided 
   below)
* Your linked list must implement a constructor, a destructor and
   other other methods as needed
* You must define clear interfaces (public functions for the
   linked-list), so that implementation details are hidden from the
   code that uses the linked-list, which is the checkpoint for this
   assignment.
* Your program must properly free all memory it allocates, including
   your linked list nodes and any dynamically allocated data stored
   inside them. You must run valgrind on your code and get a clean
   report
* Your code should be readable, which means reasonable comment and good formating like indentation. 
* Star points: Appropriate use of recursion to write concise and
   elegant code without compromising on performance.

## Detail Approach

* Spend time thinking through your design before implementing it.
* Run your initial design by your mentor to get some initial feedback
* Identify the objects in your game as well as their behaviors (public functions): 
  * card, which represents a specific card. (Think about node in linked list)
  * hand, which represents a sequence, or a list, of cards dealt to each player. What does it do? i.e. It might let you know what the first card is. It can traverse all cards in this hand. It can tell if it contains a specific card. It can throw a card away given what that card is. 
  * player, which represents a person who has a hand of cards! Can you let it have a name? 
  * etc. You might create less than or more than three classes, which is totally OK, as long as they are meaningful and helpful for object-oriented programming!
* Create appropriate classes - to do this you have to identify the
   behaviors and attributes of the different objects in your game.
* While you have flexibility in terms of designing your classes in
   general, we require that you represent each player's hand (aka list
   of cards) as a linked-list where each node stores a Card object
   instead of a simple integer value. In your design you may represent
   a Card as a class or as a struct.

* To design the class that represents the list of cards (let's call
   this `CardList`), think about how other parts of your program
   interact with this class. For example, in the algorithm for the
   game you have to repeatedly insert cards into your `CardList`, so
   your class should definitely have an insert method -- what should
   be the parameter to insert?

* Here are some other ways a player may interact with their list of cards:

  - search: Let's say Alice starts the game - one of the first things she needs to do is to check if her first card (h 3) is in Bob's card list.  So Bob, at this moment, should call a function to search this card (h 3) in his list of cards. Obiviously, (h 3) is not in Bob's list. So Alice goes to her next card (s 2) and asks Bob to search for (s 2). Still failed. ... (many failures here) until Alice asks Bob to search for (c 3), Bob finds it! The main point here is that your CardList class should implement a search function, and any player should be able to 'ask' another player to find a matching card by calling some appropriate method of a class.
  - delete: Once Alice and Bob have found a matching card (in this case (c 3)), they  should throw their (c 3) cards away. Both of them should call a 'delete' function to delete the card (c 3) in their lists of cards -- what should be the parameter to the delete function, what should be the return value?
 

## Overload operator "<<"

Overloading operator "<<" is a useful feature in C++. It enables objects of various classes to customize their stream extraction behavior. ("<<" is for output. ">>" is for input with similar usage but not discussed here.)
To specificly illuatrate how to overload operator "<<", here is an example.

```cpp
#include <iostream> // including std::ostream
#include <string>

class Person {
 public:
  Person() { name = "I have no name"; }
  
  void setName(std::string hereisyourname) { name = hereisyourname; }
  
  friend std::ostream& operator<< (std::ostream& os, const Person& random) {
      os << "My name is: " << random.name;
      return os; // !!!!! Don't forget this return !!!!!
  }
  
 private:
  std::string name;
};

int main()
{
  Person random;
  
  std::cout << random << std::endl;
  
  random.setName("Barbara");
  
  std::cout << random << std::endl;
}
```

A class Person is defined, and it has an overload insertion "<<" function as a friend non-member function.
Inside this overloading function, people can freely specify what information would be printed out when operator "<<" is applied to this class, Person. Here we want it to print its name. 

With overloading function, we can directly print Person like how we print those built-in data types i.e. int, double.

Here is the output. 

```
My name is: I have no name
My name is: Barbara
```

# Submission instructions 

## Files to submit for final submission

You must organize your program in five files: main.cpp cards.cpp cards.h testcards.cpp testcards.h. In addition you must create a Makefile that compiles your program to an executable called <code>game</code> and unit test executable called <code>testcards</code>

You must submit exactly six files with the names: Makefile, main.cpp, cards.cpp, cards.h, testcards.cpp, testcards.h. 


Submit the files for PA1 on gradescope and push them to github with the message "FINAL SUBMISSION". Be sure to wait for the results of all tests. If you score
90/90, and you’ve followed all of the other rules, then you’ll earn
90/90. 


* 10 points for style and overall design following the guidelines in the requirements (above)

Created by Jack Alexander, Jinjin Shao, and Diba Mirza
